taxation and trade are the two major
ways that governments can raise money
this raise money is used to pay back the
central bank loans with interest
so when governments use the central
banks to bail out private banks for
their risky behavior the government's
are left with the debt which eventually
has to be paid back by the taxpayers in
the future I guess you would have to be
fifteen years old or older to remember
that Barack Obama announced that all of
that money turned a profit that the
bailout money the loans made to banks
that it was paid back with interest
anyone in the audience more than 15
years old anyone in the audience read
the front page of the newspaper anyone
in the audience know how to use Google
hears bailout tracker one of the first
results you're gonna get on Google yes
the 700 billion dollar bailout package
was paid back realizing a profit for the
government United States of America of
121 billion dollars so even a statement
this simple from ColdFusion even it's
even this simple that when the
government provides a bailout to banks
that that's money being stolen from
taxpayers and then to be paid back by
the taxpayers even that is false and I
don't think he's intentionally lying
it's just mind-blowing to me that people
really do generate this kind of fake
news seemingly with good intentions
taxation and trade are the two major
ways that governments can raise money
this raise money is used to pay back the
central bank loans with interest
so when governments use the central
bank's to bail out private banks for
their risky behavior the governments are
left with the debt which eventually has
to be paid back by the taxpayers in the
future it's just mind-blowing to me that
people really do generate this kind of
fake news seemingly with good intentions
right seemingly but what fundamentally
is his intention he wants to sound
important he wants to sound like an
expert and I think consciously or
unconsciously he's just seeking out the
sources on the internet that make him
feel special that make him feel like he
knows something other people don't know
and guess what you don't even know
what's on the front page of the
newspaper that those feelings didn't
cost the US taxpayer a dime they
actually turned a profit for the US
taxpayer you know what maybe there still
is a really interesting critique to
offer of that kind of bail I'm the
world's most cynical person about
quantitative easing I formerly
researched it and wrote papers about it
in university I think those papers on
the Internet if not I can post them on
my blog now you know what I have a bias
here and I'm actually very much morally
opposed to and even kind of economically
opposed to the choices that the US
government made however my analysis is
not based on a lie Elya we discussed
that money printing leads to inflation
so why haven't we seen it yet well we
have we've seen inflation globally in
housing prices and stock markets I would
be the first person to admit that the
terminology we use when discussing
economics in English is baffling it's
not part of the natural range of
expression in the English language it's
really confusing to people even with the
best of intentions and people who are
highly intelligent
unfortunately coldfusion this YouTube
channel is neither highly intelligent
nor does he have the best of intentions
I don't think he's intentionally lying
to you I think he's someone who is
uncritically hearing and regurgitating
other people's incredibly biased false
and misleading statements about
economics while he has no understanding
of economics of his own think about what
he just said in the short clip that I
just played for you Elya we discussed
that money printing leads to inflation
so why haven't we seen it yet his whole
analysis up to this point has been
claiming that there should be massive
inflation in our economy because of the
government policies he's been
criticizing and there isn't so he then
asked the question well why haven't we
Dean disinflation and he says well we
have but it's in the stock market and in
housing prices no no no no homie what's
the meaning of the word inflation again
oh yeah right
it's the decline in purchasing power of
money in layman's terms your one dollar
bill is worth less and less your one
dollar bill will buy you less and less
whether that be the Japanese yen or the
Swiss franc or whatever currency it is
right that's the meaning of the word
inflation if it's context you cannot
explain away the fact that your theory
is blatantly empirically wrong by now
claiming that the reason why we haven't
seen inflation meaning the declining
value of dollars when purchasing these
the declining purchasing power of
dollars you can't explain that whoever
said oh well there is inflation in the
housing market where the word inflation
in that part of the sentence suddenly
has a totally different what does that
mean it means the price of a house is
more and more expensive that's not the
same meaning at all those two parts the
argument don't fit together at all it's
not just a logical error it's not just a
reasoning error this is in numeracy this
is numerical illiteracy this shows a
fundamental lack of competence and that
this is someone who is just clicking
around the internet taking bits and
pieces of information from frankly
extremist sources and cobbling to get
them together in a YouTube video that
has an aesthetically appealing package
and has appealed its appeal to hundreds
of thousands of people but it's really
burdening people with quite dangerous
misinformation the printed money ends up
in all of these assets pushing up the
prices so the few people who earn large
amounts of stocks end up ridiculously
wealthy while there's no growth in the
real economy the rich get richer and
Paul get poorer you notice how casually
he throughout those two claims without a
single chart or a single fact to prove
them there's no real growth in the
economy really I've made YouTube videos
debunking that claim it's mostly people
on the left-wing who claim that but
sometimes right-wing people sometimes
libertarians claim this to people who
want to go back to the gold standard
there's an emotional growth in the
economy really in the last twenty years
a few people watch just look around you
are there new houses being built are
there new skyscrapers being built in the
city we live you know what I've been to
some neighborhoods of Detroit where I
believe there is no growth economy if
you talk about the United States
although as a whole if you're talking
about your whole if Chuck McKenna
you think there's been no growth in the
economy I've already made YouTube videos
debunking this you think the poor have
gotten poorer but you haven't looked at
you haven't presented a single statistic
1960 to 2020 you think in the United
States of America the program for it is
just not true it's a lie
that's so easily was in a no way well
and what was this meant to sort of
distract us from what was the claim he
was he was backing up with this totally
irrelevant
you know allusion to the rich getting
richer the poor getting ports are these
sort of left-wing bogeyman of 21st
century economic what was this point in
the first place the printed money ends
up in all of these assets pushing up the
prices so the few people here in large
amounts of stocks end up ridiculously
wealthy while there's no growth in the
real economy all right his claim is that
the value of stocks on the stock market
is created by and defined by the amount
of money being printed by the government
okay really let's let's just let's just
let's just break this down Apple
Computer the people who make cell phones
computers very expensive watches do you
think that the value of Apple Computer
on the stock market is rising and
falling or is created by the American
government
money that is just laughably
economically illiterate it's just stupid
and it's being presented you hear it
with a gravely serious tone by someone
who claims he's unmasking the illusions
of economics for your enlightenment the
value of Apple Computer is based on
their predicted future earnings period
is Apple Computer as a stock is the
value of the stock higher than it should
be probably you know why advertising
everyone's seen the logo people want to
buy the stock because they see the logo
they see the test but sure there are
factors that skew that but that's why
Apple is so sensitive to the slightest
bad news that when the iPhone 10 came
out and wasn't selling that well you
could go how is it possible for such a
successful company as Apple Computer
to be in trouble if they put out just
one new cellphone model that's not
stupid it's because the value of their
stock on the stock market is based on
the perception of future earnings period
why are people putting millions and
billions of dollars into Tesla car
company rightly or wrongly by the way
I'm not making a prediction about the
future that come in it's because they
believe more and more people want to buy
those cars they're gonna manufacture
more and more Cup it's the perception of
future it's the perception of the
potential of growth do you believe that
the value of Tesla cars the value of
that carburetor is based on the amount
of money being printed by the US
government
this is just a joke this is a joke from
the perspective of someone who has done
high school level economics remember in
my Enron video how I talks about how
they use financial instruments to bet on
the weather these crazy classes of
financial instruments is what brought
down the housing market and the
subsequent global economy in 2008
no it wasn't again quick Google search
what caused the crash in 2008 Oh does
this sound familiar to you guys or any
of you guys over ten years old and you
can remember the phrase subprime
mortgage do you do you guys wanna what
sorry what was it the cost the 2008
financial crisis again it was the
housing boom followed by the housing
bust which occurred in 2006 2006 and so
and then so the reverberations of that
that is peat there are people out there
who had trillions of dollars invested in
securities based upon mortgages and when
people stopped paying their mortgages
the value of securities vanished into
thin air so you do not argue that this
was a financial crisis that spilled over
into the real economy you argue that it
was a problem in the real economy
particularly the housing mark yes that
started the problem in the financial
sector
oh absolutely if people had kept paying
their mortgages the Securities would
have been good and we would have all
lived happily ever after I do not
believe that this youtuber ColdFusion is
intentionally misleading or
intentionally manipulating his audience
I think he's so stupid I think he is so
fundamentally economically illiterate
that he is uncritically repeating things
being said by a variety of crackpots and
those crackpots have been intentionally
lying to and manipulating their audience
including cold fusion